In our baseline algorithm we used all
the words to do Sentiment Analysis.
But well, there's lots of information
about which words have which kind
of sentiment that we might
want to make use of in addition.
And, these are called sentiment lexicons.
One sentiment lexicon is
the General Inquirer.
It's been around for
quite a long time, since 1966.
And I pointed you here
at the Home page and
the list of categories for
the General Inquirer.
And you can see the spreadsheet
that lists all the words.
Let's go look at the General Inquirer.
So, here's the General Inquirer
categories and here, for example,
you can see, Make this a little larger.
Here you can see Positiv and
Negativ lists of words.
Let's go look at one of them.
Let's look at the Positiv list.
So, here's some lists of words.
Ability, Abide, Able,
Abound, Absolve, and so on.
So, here's Positiv words
from this sentiment list.
So, in addition to Positiv and Negativ,
the General Inquirer also has lots of
other lists of kinds of classes or words.
Strong vs Weak, Overstated versus
Understated, words about Pleasure,
Cognitive Orientation,
all sorts of other words.
So, we can use it not just for
the simple polarity questions that we're
talking about right now, but
more rich sentiment kind of questions.
LIWC, the Linguistic Inquiry and
Word Count,
is a database developed by
James Pennebaker and his colleagues.
And here we have lots of classes,
70 classes of words talking about
negative emotion or positive emotion.
Words like bad, or weird, or hate,
Cognitive Processes, all the Pronouns,
first person, second person Pronouns.
Words having to do with Negation,
like no or never, Quantifiers, and so on.
And LIWC has a small charge but
has a large list of words that people
often use for sentiment analysis.
The MPQA Subjectivity Cues Lexicon
by Wilson and
Wiebe, and their colleagues.
Gives you, again,
a list of polarity items,
your positive words and negative words.
And words in this lexicon are also
annotated for intensity, for
how strong and weak they are.
Another polarity lexicon that's available
on the web is Bing Liu's Opinion Lexicon,
and I've pointed you at that.
Again, another list of positive or
negative words.
Finally, we haven't talked about WordNet.
We'll talk about WordNet later, but
WordNet is an online thesaurus, and
the entries in WordNet have also
been labelled for their polarity.
So for example,
the word estimable "may be computed or
estimated", is labeled
as neither Positive or
Negative, but
Objective in the SentiWordNet.
But the word estimable, meaning
"deserving of respect or high regard",
that's a mostly Positive, although
sometimes not, sometimes Objective word.
So we can see that each word
gets a label for how Positive,
Negative, or Objective it is.
And again, you can go look at that here,
and you have to fill out
a form to download that.
And we'll talk about
WordNet itself a bit later.
So each of these lexicons
has different things in it.
But, they overlap in all
talking about polarity.
And Chris Potts ran a lovely correlation
between these, looking at whether
the polarity, if a word is in multiple
lexicons, does it have the same polarity?
And you can see that,
with the exception of SentiWordNet,
which has a whole lot of different things
going on in it, in general, if a word
is in multiple lexicons, the disagreements
between the lexicons are very small.
So most of the time for
the Opinion Lexicon,
the General Inquirer lexicon, for
LIWC, for the MPQA, in general, for
all of these you find pretty similar
sentiments if you're just doing polarity.
Obviously, if you're doing more
complicated things then they're going to
start to differ.
We might want to look at each of words and
talk about what the polarity is of words.
Like, words that we get from these
lexicons if we're looking at a database
like IMDB.
And there's some nice research
by Chris Pott's looking at this.
So, he asked the question,
how likely is each word to
appear in each sentiment class?
And let's look at IMDB
where there's 10-stars.
So, a word like bad could appear in
1-star reviews with a certain count,
2-star reviews with a certain count,
3-star, and so on.
Can we use that to understand what's
the sentiment of that word bad,
just by counting how often it occurs in
different reviews of different stars.
And as he pointed out,
you can't just use raw counts.
Here, this shows you, along the x-axis,
as we look at the different categories so
1-star, 2-star, 3-star, 10-star.
And here's the count of times that the
word bad occurs, the adjective bad occurs.
And you can see it's
mostly in 1-star reviews.
But it actually occurs more often in
10-star reviews than in 2-star reviews,
which seems like a problem because bad
should be really, a negative word.
But that's because there are just a lot
more 9 and 10-star reviews, or 8 and
10-star reviews than
there are 2-star reviews.
It turns out that reviews
tend to skew positive.
So we can't use the raw counts.
Instead, we're going to
use the likelihood.
We're going to take the frequency
of the word in the class and
we're going to divide it by the total
number of words in that class.
And that will solve the problem of
classes like 9 and 10, in general,
being bigger, because we're computing the
likelihood condition on the class size.
Now, an additional thing we often
want to do is compare these numbers for
different words.
Some words are very frequent,
some words are less frequent.
And so to do this, we want to do a scale
of likelihood where we take the likelihood
of the word given the class and just
divide by the probability of the word.
So now,
if a word is particularly frequent or
particularly rare,
we can still compare them with each other.
So we compute the scale of likelihoods.
And if you look at that, we can see,
here's the word good or the word amazing.
We can see that as for amazing,
as review numbers, as the stars go up from
1-star to 10-star, the word is much
more frequently use as we get higher up.
For great, similarly, or
not strong as amazing.
For awesome, again, we see a very sharp
rise in its use for 10-star reviews.
For good, it turns out to be
used mostly in the middle.
A good movie is not great,
and it's not terrible, and
that's what we might
expect from the word good.
And similarly for bad reviews.
So again, a word like depressed,
more often,
are going to occur in these negative
reviews, the 1, 2, and 3 reviews.
A word like bad, again, occurring
in these 1, 2, and 3-star reviews.
Terrible, in these 1,
2, and 3-star reviews.
So we can look at, along the x-axis,
the review quality 1 through 10 and
along the y-axis the scale likelihood
to see the polarity of the word.
So Potts also asked whether we can see
sentiment in other words than good or bad.
He looked at logical negation,
words like no,
not, never and the n't of isn't,
and didn't, and so on.
Are those associated
with negative sentiment?
Now, what he did, again, is he
counted negation in online reviews and
looked at them,
how they matched the review rating
And just like the word bad or
the word terrible,
you can see that these negation
words like no, not, never occur
more frequently in these low star reviews,
either in the IMDB database or
other databases which
are only from 1 to 5-stars.
So, in these lexicons, we can see lots
of words are positive and negative.
But there might be more sophisticated
features like, let's say,
this kind of logical negation
also is a good cue for sentiment.